# 2 Way ANOVA
It is also called **2 Factor** ANOVA.
> Previously, we used the 1 way ANOVA ***to compare 1 independent variable***. Like for the discount example - the variable was the offer itself. There *dependent* variable was the days, the time it took to receive payments.

Of course in 2 way — it lets us to compare / test 2 **independent** variable at the same time.

**Before**, we had the table like *(In One Way)*:

|        |Variable |Variable |
|--      |--       |--       |
|obs$_1$ | #       | #       |
|obs$_2$ | #       | #       |
|obs$_3$ | ...     | ...     |

**Now**, in 2 way, we will have something like this ↓

|             |Variable$_1$ |Variable$_1$ |
|--           |--           |--           |
|Variable$_2$ | #           | #           |
|Variable$_2$ | #           | #           |
|Variable$_2$ | ...         | ...         |

Now, here we only have **ONE** observation per intersection. Thus this example is called **2 Way Without Replication**. In the upcoming file we will see **With Replication**.

In ANOVA analogy each second variable (Variable$_2$) is called **BLOCK**. And as we are used to the first variable is *still* called **GROUP**. Thus the table:

|     |Group |Group |
|--   |--    |--   |
|Block| #    | #   |
|Block| #    | #   |
|Block| ...  | ... |

Main Thing:
> We want to ***isolate*** and remove **any** variance contributed by the BLOCK to better understand the variance in the groups.
> 
> The goal of ANOVA is **to separate** ***different aspects*** of the total variance. 

**In 1 Way** we needed to find:
- Mega Picture
	1. SSG
	2. SSI
	3. DF$_\text{group}$
	4. DF$_\text{internal}$
- Nuts and Bolts
	1. $\bar x_g$
	2. $\bar x_\text{group}$

And they all have their respective formulae. And **recall** that we also mentioned there that **Total Variance** is also a term which in 1 way we don't need to find. It was the addition of: 

$\text{Total Variance (SST)} = SSG + SSI$
<br>
Now, **In 2 Way** we needed to find:
- Mega Picture
	1. SSG
	2. SSI
	3. SSB
	4. DF$_\text{group}$
	5. DF$_\text{internal}$
- Nuts and Bolts
	1. $\bar x_g$
	2. $\bar x_b$
	3. $\bar x_\text{group}~~$ or $~~\bar x_\text{block}$

But here, to find SSI (Sum of Squares internals) we need to find the **Total Variance** here first — which is the Sum of Squares of all elements from the grand mean ($\bar x_\text{total}$ or $\bar{\bar x}$)

Here the Total Variance is composed of:
$\text{Total Variance (SST)} = SSG + SSB + SSI$

Thus, the SSI can be found with:
$SSI = \text{Total Variance (SST)} - SSG - SSB$

Simple isn't it?
**NOTE**: The SSB is the Sum of Squares of Blocks. Which is the same as SSG which is done in 0 axis (↓) and the SSB is done on the 1 axis (→). It is where we will find the sum of squares of all column wise elements with the mean of blocks.

The final formulae / F ratio is the same:
### $$ F = \frac{\frac{SSG}{df_\text{groups}}}{\frac{SSI}{df_\text{internals}}}$$

The **change** is in the $df_\text{internals}$ formulae. Okay, wait. Let me write all formulae here. *(Will mention where is the change)*

<font size=5>$SSG = \sum (\bar x_{gi} - \bar x_\text{total})^2 \times~ n_\text{columns}$</font>
<br>
<font size=5>$SSB = \sum (\bar x_{bi} - \bar x_\text{total})^2 ~\times~ n_\text{columns}$</font>
<br>
CHANGE
<font size=5>$SSI = SST - SSB - SSG$</font>
<br>
<font size=5>$SST = \sum(x_{ij} - \bar x_\text{total})$</font>

*(Note in the above formulae that we are not using the $\bar x$ here as we are directly using the elements we are just using $x$. **AND** also it is worth noting that, as it is the Total Variance (SST), all elements are considered, so like SSB and SSG we <u>don't have to multiply</u> it with the number like $~~~\sum(...) \times~ n_\text{columns}~~~$ and $~~~\sum(...) \times~ n_\text{columns}~~~$ respectively.)*
<br>
<font size=5>$df_\text{groups} = n_\text{groups} - 1$</font>
<br>
CHANGE
<font size=5>$df_\text{internels} = (n_\text{rows} - 1) (n_\text{columns} - 1)$</font>
___
Now, when working with 2 way ANOVA, the **F value will be usually large number.**

# Great!
In the very next one, we will see the example of 2 way ANOVA.