# Chi-Exampqure
There is a company and it has it servers:
- It runs 6 **identical** servers
- The **failure rate** of all servers **should be the same** — which means all servers are same and there is no other reason which makes one to fail more or less than other. All are of same model, brand, type etc.

Based on that data, **can we assume that the servers fail at the same rate?**
—
Oh! nothing much going on here. I know every statement in the question they put is not directly human interpretable. So here, is my interpretation with which we can go for it sprightly.

"*There is a company and has servers. Its boss once sitting in his office thought - "What if my server fails!" The boss is worried. His assistant comes in and suggests that "Sir! we have 6 servers. They all are identical."*

*The boss says, **if all are identical and can fail at the same rate, what is your confidence that they fail at same rate?**" (means they can fail at different rate too!)*

Here, the assistant has to prove that he is 95%, 99% confident that **all servers can fail at the same rate**. So there is nothing to worry. But how will he prove that to freakin' boss?

Here comes the hypothesis and chi-square.
Here, we need to historical data of server failures.
So, we have got that here ↓

| Server | Observations |
|:------:|:------------:|
|    A   |      46      |
|    B   |      36      |
|    C   |      52      |
|    D   |      26      |
|    E   |      42      |
|    F   |      38      |

**NOW**, before moving with the Chi-Square, there are a few assumption that we need to make about the event:
1. One event **doesn't** affect other event's outcome. *(Here, if one server fails, it doesn't affect others to fail or not to fail)*
2. There is *No Degree of Failure*. Which means an even can happen or not happen. It can't be in between. The events are discrete in the nature. *(Here, the server can fail, or not fail. It can't be in between)*

Now, we will have to see **each server, as the out come of an event**. As we understood in the Chi-square intuition, that the $\chi^2$ is the **sum** of difference between all possible outcomes and expected value, so here the **servers are the outcomes**.

We have our 'O', now we have to find the 'E'. Since, the hypothesis says:
$H_0 = \text{All servers' failure rate are same}$
$H_1 = \text{All servers' failure rate are different}$

*(Here, the <u>steps</u> can't be followed of hypothesis testing, as the part of selecting the tail and so on is not the part of this chi-square. So we will directly go and set the $H_0$ and $H_1$ hypothesis. )*

Thus, the Expected outcome is same for all servers. Since, we don't have trials in the data, we can't say out of how much and what is their failure rate. So we will **take the mean** and will set as the expected value.

| Server |  Observations  | Expected |
|:------:|:--------------:|:--------:|
|    A   |       46       |    40    |
|    B   |       36       |    40    |
|    C   |       52       |    40    |
|    D   |       26       |    40    |
|    E   |       42       |    40    |
|    F   |       38       |    40    |
|        | TotalObs = 240 | Mean = $\frac{\text{TotalObs}} {N}$ = 40         |

We have all set.
So,

| Server | Observations | Expected | $(O - E)^2$ | $\frac{(O - E)^2}{E}$ |
|:------:|:------------:|:--------:|-------------|-----------------------|
|    A   |      46      |    40    | 36          | 0.9                   |
|    B   |      36      |    40    | 16          | 0.4                   |
|    C   |      52      |    40    | 144         | 3.6                   |
|    D   |      26      |    40    | 196         | 4.9                   |
|    E   |      42      |    40    | 4           | 0.1                   |
|    F   |      38      |    40    | 4           | 0.1                   |
|        |              |          |             | Sum = 10              |

Hence, 
$\chi^2 = \sum \frac{(O - E)^2}{E}$
$~~~~~~=10$

So, we have the chi-square `10`.
Now,
$df = \text{Total Outcomes} - 1 = 6 - 1 = 5$
$\therefore df = 5$

$\alpha = 0.05$
$\text{Critical Value} = \alpha ~\cap~ df = 11.070$

So, our hypothesis
$\chi^2 < \text{Critical value}$
$10 < 11.070 = \text{TRUE}$

Thus, we will **fail to reject** the null hypothesis and say with 95% confidence that the servers fail at the same rate.
___
**NOTE**: That, the chi-square value is **not much smaller** than the critical value, It is just 10 and 11.070. Because the overall failure rate is same. If you see, server C and D. Server C has failed 52 times while server D has only half 26 times. Which means C and D are not failing at the same time. If their failure rate was same, the chi-square value would be much lower and **we would be able to set hight confidence level like 99%**.

Here, we can also say that about the C and D, that can happen 5% of the time. So 95% of the time server fail at the same rate, but for the 5% of the time, there can be some difference.

```python
from scipy.stats import chi2
chi2.isf(0.05, 5)
>>> 11.070
```

Amazing! Now, I have one more power in my bag of skills to check the hypothesis.

# Amazing Journey
Yes! Now, in the next file, I will talk about starting a new journey. Hah! See you there ∞