# Probability
*It is the value between 0 to 1 that a certain event will occur.* 

-  **Trials have no memory.** You flipped a coin, the probability of 0.5, then you kept flipping it, the probability was still 0.5. The trials are independent. Coin doesn't store that "if it got heads, then it has to get tail now".
- When the trials are "dependent", then they come under the "Conditional Probability" section.
___
**Have A Look**:
In the lecture of probability, there is one example - if you read the their solution then, you will feel bad. But there is our own and SIMPLEST solution. Have a look:

<u><b>Q.</b></u><font face="consolas"> 
In a pool of 24 workers, one is a corporate spy. The pool is divided into teams, with four workers per team. If you were to randomly pick one of these teams, what is the probability that the team you picked would contain a spy?
</font>
<u><b>A.</b></u> *(theirs)*
$P(\text{A selected person is spy}) = \frac {1}{24}$
$P(\text{Selected group contains spy}) = \frac{1}{24} \times 4 = 0.667$

But this man! Will confuse **you**! So the simple technique that you should apply is...

<u><b>A.</b></u> *(mine)*
$\text{Groups made} = \frac{24}{4} = 6$
$P(\text{Selected group contains spy}) = \frac{1}{6}  = 0.667$
 
 Simple! Not a fig fuss! Listen, if we have to choose a *team* then why we care about how many out of how are there! Just divide people and form the team and then go!
Yes, you will have to take care when **instead of 1 out of 24, there are 2 out of 24** which will make you to write `if 1 person is in 1 group and 1 person in another of both are in the same group`... like wise. 

But in the situation like this ↓
 <u><b>Q.</b></u><font face="consolas"> 
There are 50 valves in the company out of which 1 is defective. The company makes the trumpets. A single trumpet involves 3 valves. What is the probability that the 1 chosen trumpet has the defective valve?
</font>
<u><b>A.</b></u> *(theirs)*
$P(\text{Trumphet being defective}) = \frac {1}{50}$
$P(\text{Selected trupet contains defective valve}) = \frac{1}{50} \times 3 = 0.06$

Now, the ↑ solution works better because you see, we can not perfectly divide $\frac{50}{3}$ so when you do that, you will get the answer in fraction and then you **will doubt on your method**. The result will match the same, but because of the fraction, it might make you to change the method. **BUT DON'T**.

> *Keep that in mind, what you know about probability is right*.


# Permutation
*Is set of objects arranged in some sort of order.*
### $$ n! $$
↑ All latters All places

### $$ _nP_r = \frac {n!} {(n - r)!}$$
↑ It is when, you don't allow the repetition.

### $$ n^r $$
↑ It is when we do allow the repetition.

# Combinations
*It is where the order doesn't matter — **Unordered** arrangements of objects are called combinations.*

### $$ _nC_r = \frac {n!} {r! (n - r)!}$$
___
<center> NEW </center>

#### Permutation with repetition
### $$ _{n+r-1}C_r = \frac {(n + r - 1)!} {r! (n - 1)!} $$

<center> NEW </center>

___

# Next up,
We will shift gears. But I think will skip a lot. The next section will talk about the intersection and stuff. So it depends how I will be taking it. 
See you there.