# Sample — HowTo
> We usually are not going to grab data from every single population, instead we will take a sample.

### Ways to sample
We need to avoid Bias. Okay? And there are a couple of types of Bias. Now, see they don't have to be remembered but for the sake of learning first time these bias types - I am noting them down. **Forget as you read these ↓**.

1. **Selection Bias**: 
	> Favors those members of a population who are more inclined and able to answer the polls.
	- ***Undercoverage Bias***:
		>Making too few observations or omitting entire segments of the population.
		- <u>Ex</u>: Taking sample of security guards who has the day shift. But here, we are omitting those who has the night shift.

	- ***Self-Selection Bias***:
		> People who volunteer may differ significantly from those in the population who don't.
		- <u>Ex</u>: If you are taking opinions for some object. Then only those who are interested will answer. That will be skewed. Only those who like or dislike thing will answer so not all opinions will met.
	- ***Healthy-User Bias***: 
		> The sample come from the healthier segment of the overall population. 
		- <u>Ex</u>: Survey of people at the fruit stand are likely to be healthy. So surveying only them will give same kind of results.

2. **Survivorship Bias**
	- Really easy to get tricked.
	> If a population improves over the time, it may be due to lesser member leaving the population due to explosion (bahare kadhvo), relocation etc.

## Now, Techniques of Sampling

1. Random
2. Stratified Random
3. Clustering

I feel like I have written so much already in my note book, so here I am going to note only required and new points.

### 1. Random Sampling
- Every member of population has equal chance of getting selected. 
- **Problem** is that, since the samples are so small than the population, sampling randomly might miss entire section of the population. 

### 2. Stratified Random Sampling
- Ensures that the groups within a population are adequately represented.
- Divide - Segments - Random.
- Members can't belong to 2 groups at once.

### 3. Clustering 
- Less precise
- Break the population into groups without any knowledge of characteristics.
- Then select randomly from each group.
- To reduce the cost.

# Next Up,
Something is really coming new and great. It is called "Central Limit Theorem". Aah! Let's learn that up.